Source Title: How is Computer Science at UBuffalo?
Source Type: Reddit thread
Source URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/UBreddit/comments/10xaxf7/how_is_computer_science_at_ubuffalo/
Domain: Guide to Studying Computer Science at UB
Topic: General student opinions about the UB Computer Science program

TEXT: Like all programs, it is what you make of it. You can squeeze shit tons of values out of UB CS program if you put in the effort for good grades, network/maintain a relationship with your professors and peers(associate with the well-connected and successful ones, not the wishy-washy types) and take advantage of all the resources and opportunities the campus has on offer. this includes clubs, office hours, tutoring, researches, events, workshops, careers centers, and ect. I mean you or someone else has paid for these so take full advantage of it. Otherwise it would like be like you paying for Netflix subscription but never watch a single video on it.
Also, look for opportunities outside of school. Studies on college outcomes often said the school does not matter as much as what you study and what you do. I fully subscribe to that. Of course, dont go to shitty school with 80+% drop out rates that barely invest anything into their students, that should be common sense. With that said, UB is pretty solid for a good value so you shouldnt need to worry about this.

1. not sure, colleges are very much none transparent about this data and for a good reason, it is bad marketing. I suggest you go to the college board(or was it DoE?) which seems to have data for alumni careers, salary, and ect 5 year post-graduation for anyone who took out federal loans. When i was a student, i did not bother with career fairs, you are competing against countless other students. you will be much better off just applying for internships or job opportunities on indeed or linkedin. Edit: found the link. https://collegescorecard.ed.gov/school/?196088-University-at-Buffalo
2. very large for freshmen years but classes will get much smaller into junior and senior years because many get weed out or dropped the program.
3. yes but like i said, only if you take full advantage of it. you can coast and be lazy and still pass with a c but you wont learn much and wont be any better off compared to lesser ranked school with a bad program. If you are diligent, you will learn a lot and be extremely knowledgable.